I’m two weeks into building MEV bots, and now I’m starting to feel the pressure. There’s just so much to study and learn before I can begin. My usual approach is to first build a simple bot **on my own** that works, regardless of optimization, and then gradually improve its logic. However, this normally takes a really long time to build the first working bot, so it’s not the best way to start your journey into a new domain.

Believe it or not, the MEV community genuinely tries to assist new beginners in this field. There are open-source projects available to guide the way, but I failed to search for these projects beforehand and ended up trying to reinvent the wheel for the past 2 weeks.

Therefore, I’m changing my plan. I’ll clone code popular MEV-related repositories to understand how the pros are doing it. I have selected five popular projects written in Rust because most serious projects in this domain seem to be happening within the Rust community. My plan is to build each one out every day, which will take me 5 days.

[](https://medium.com/plans?source=promotion_paragraph---post_body_banner_unlock_stories_blocks--3888c71b02b3---------------------------------------)

The projects are:

1. **mev-template-rs**

[

## GitHub - degatchi/mev-template-rs: Bootstrap your MEV bot strategies with a simple boilerplate to…

### Bootstrap your MEV bot strategies with a simple boilerplate to build on top of. - GitHub - degatchi/mev-template-rs…

github.com



](https://github.com/degatchi/mev-template-rs?source=post_page-----3888c71b02b3---------------------------------------)

**2. cfmms-rs**

[

## GitHub - 0xKitsune/cfmms-rs: CFMM lib built in Rust enabling pair syncing and swap simulation with…

### CFMM lib built in Rust enabling pair syncing and swap simulation with pools on Ethereum. - GitHub - 0xKitsune/cfmms-rs…

github.com



](https://github.com/0xKitsune/cfmms-rs?source=post_page-----3888c71b02b3---------------------------------------)

**3. subway-rs**

[

## GitHub - refcell/subway-rs: An extensible and practical demonstration of constructing evm-based…

### An extensible and practical demonstration of constructing evm-based sandwich attacks built with ethers-rs and Huff…

github.com



](https://github.com/refcell/subway-rs?source=post_page-----3888c71b02b3---------------------------------------)

**4. rusty-sando**

[

## GitHub - mouseless-eth/rusty-sando: Implementation of a competitive v2/v3 multi-meat MEV sandwich…

### Implementation of a competitive v2/v3 multi-meat MEV sandwich bot written using Rust and Huff. - GitHub …

github.com



](https://github.com/mouseless-eth/rusty-sando?source=post_page-----3888c71b02b3---------------------------------------)

**5. artemis**

[

## GitHub - paradigmxyz/artemis: A simple, modular, and fast framework for writing MEV bots in Rust.

### A simple, modular, and fast framework for writing MEV bots in Rust. - GitHub - paradigmxyz/artemis: A simple, modular…

github.com



](https://github.com/paradigmxyz/artemis?source=post_page-----3888c71b02b3---------------------------------------)

I’ll see you in a week!

Hope I can find some patterns here and understand the best practices. The next post will be on how my clone code went, and what I learned from these codes 🧑🏼‍💻

